[The Epigraphy of Monetary Economy in Anatolia, c. 700-30 BCE](https://change.csad.ox.ac.uk/inscriptions/)
============================================================

This a searchable inventory of epigraphic testimony for monetary use and activity in the Anatolian peninsula and its offshore islands from the 7th to 1st centuries BCE, spanning the origins of coinage to the onset of the Roman imperial period. It is based on a compilation of the 11,000 inscriptions from this region and period, as gathered from the major established series – the _Supplementum Epigraphicum Graecum, Inscriptiones Graecae XII.1-4, Inschriften griechischer Städte Kleinasiens, Tituli Asiae Minoris,_ and the _Monumenta Asiae Minoris Antiqua,_ as well as the notices in the _Bulletin Épigraphique,_ and other individual site-corpora not covered by these series. This covers the corpus of documents in Greek, and some of the relevant documents in indigenous languages. The contents of these texts have been analysed and, where relevant, annotated and organised into search-categories, so that it is possible to quickly assemble epigraphic references, including line-numbers, on particular themes relating to monetary history: for instance, the appearance of particular currencies and denominations (e.g. drachmas, obols, Kyzikene staters), types of monetary transactions (e.g. loans, sale, regulations on taxation), or the different contexts and institutions in which monetary payment is attested (e.g. military activity, sacrificial acts, the gymnasium). Further explanation of the search filters is provided below. The inscriptions have been classified by date, genre, and place, which means that these search results can be refined chronologically, geographically, or both. The point of this inventory, it should be stressed, is to offer a portal for accessing the published epigraphic corpus, by making readily available lists of relevant references based on search queries: the texts that are referred to are based on the latest or best accepted editions, but have not been re-edited or republished in this interface. The aim here is to suggest one way forward for exploiting epigraphic evidence _en masse_ towards answering questions of monetary and economic history in the ancient Mediterranean world, in the first instance, but hopefully also offers an approach that might be applied to other themes as well. Places and regions conform to the definitions found on nomisma.org, while links to relevant online editions of texts (in particular the database of Greek inscriptions operated by the Packhum Humanities Institute and Trismegistos) are provided where possible.

The work of compiling this inventory was carried out within the remit of a single research project. This means that there will inevitably be errors, omissions, or misinterpretations. Moreover, the richness of the epigraphic remains in Anatolia, of its nature, lies beyond the competence of any single individual or team. We would thus welcome any suggestions for improvement, whether these relate to corrections, enhancing the search functions, or adding new material to the dataset.

### Searching the inventory

A glossary of the terms used in the search filters can be found here

The search filters are mostly self-explanatory, except for the four which concern monetary transactions more specifically:

1.  ‘AUTHORITY’, the type of human or institutional agent conducting the monetary activity;
2.  ‘ACTIVITY’, the type of monetary activity;
3.  ‘PURPOSE/FOCUS’, the objective or main thematic focus of the monetary activity;
4.  ‘CONTEXT/FIELD OF ACTION’, the context and quality of the objective and focus defined in PURPOSE/FOCUS, where relevant.

The basic principle of these four filters can be understood in grammatical terms, with a search being a clause consisting of ‘AUTHORITY’ as the ‘subject’, ‘ACTIVITY’ as the ‘verb’, ‘PURPOSE/FOCUS’ as the ‘object’, and ‘CONTEXT/FIELD OF ACTION’ as the adverb. Thus, for instance, to collect instances of individuals spending money in relation to building activity in the gymnasium, one would search for INDIVIDUAL under 1), SPENDING under 2), CONSTRUCTION under 3), and GYMNASIUM under 4). Alternatively, for instances of cities discussing their fiscal obligations to kings, one might search CITY, REGULATION, TAXATION, IMPERIAL, across the four filters, or CIVIC under 4), if looking for taxation within a civic context alone.

One can also conduct simple searches under single filters for more general inquiries, e.g. RELIGIOUS or MILITARY under 4) for instances of spending relating to sacred or military matters, or CONSTRUCTION or OIL under 3), for spending relating to monumental building or olive oil. Some categories can be found across different filters, so there is no need for one to know precisely what one is looking for, if in doubt. Thus, ‘LOAN’ is found under both 2) and 3), if one simply wanted to obtain a list of attestations of loans; likewise, ‘SALE’ is found under 2) and 4). The four filters therefore allow for searches of both low-level and high-level complexity.


[Site Finds Database](https://change.csad.ox.ac.uk/sitefinds/)
===================
The CHANGE Project Site Finds Database provides basic data on published coins found in archaeological excavations in the region of Anatolia and neighbouring islands, with production dates between c. 700 and 30 BC. Each entry refers to an individual coin excavated on a site (some stray finds and coins found in funerary contexts are also included, coin hoards found in excavations are not). The key aim is to support research into monetary production and circulation in Archaic, Classical and Hellenistic Anatolia.

The data uses Linked Open Data technology and the standards of the nomisma.org project. It can be searched by different criteria: publication, site, mint, ARCH type, metal, production date, find region, authority and site type (where available).

The data has been derived from publications by many scholars, to whom we are very grateful. The full bibliography can be accessed here. Particular thanks are due to Zeynep Çizmeli Öğün for her 2017 survey of publications. The database is not comprehensive, and we hope further publications will be added in due course.

The database was created by Leah Lazar, with the online portal constructed by Imran Asif, as part of the CHANGE project led by Andrew Meadows with funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (grant agreement no. 865680).

Zotero bibliography: [https://www.zotero.org/groups/5615864/change_project_site_finds_database](https://www.zotero.org/groups/5615864/change_project_site_finds_database)